Please click this link to see the actual Google Colab: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1c6-tahKwTqxG8aOacnQ9Y-Bd8VHUrYYU#scrollTo=vHnLcI-WZuWW

# My Motivation
This research project I did with my professor had to be one of my most favorite projects I've ever worked on. My professor asked me to find what differentiates an elite developer (or 10x developer) from an average developer. This project excited me so much that I would literally pull all nighters, messing with code and researching factors that causes these differences. I think I had a deep curiosity for this because I was always curious about what created successful people, beyond just programming. For example, I read Malcolm Galdwell's *Outliers*, and it talked about how you needed to have 10,000 hours in any activity to be considered an expert in it. In another book, *Atomic Habits*, it describes how successful people are created by their systems of habits. Although it may be true that some people have inherit talent, almost all of them achieved results from consistency (i.e. a system of habits). For example, *Atomic Habits* describes a female chess player, Judit Polgár, who became the greatest female chess player of all time. This only occured because her father, as an experient, made her play chess everyday since she was a baby to see how successful she would become. 

Naturally, these books lend themselves to my research project. Instead of 10,000 hours, perhaps you need 100,000 lines of code to be an expert software engineer. Or maybe these 10x developers developed because of some specific habit they did. Is it also possible that elite programmers are created because of their upbringings? I know several extremely intelligent developers that started programming since they were five! These inquiries felt like an itch, something that would keep pestering me until I scratched the surface and find out. Furthermore, I think my curiosity also originated from my imposter syndrome. I often feel as though I've either started too late or that many of my peers outclass me. I know that it supposedly isn't a good idea to compare yourself to others. However, I disagree! I think doing so allows yourself to grow more and develop yourself. I want to know how those guys become accomplished. I want to reach those standards. Hence I think the real underlying reason why I wanted to do this project was see what's potentially stopping me, and what I can do to change that.

# Ambiguity
I'm not going to lie. This project slightly scared me just because there was no real problem and solution. It's not like leetcode where you given a prompt, expected to write some code, and get the correct solution. It's not even like building a product for a company. Usually you at least have some general expectations, designs, and client feedback to guide you on what you need to build. And, you know what the product should generally look like at the end. However, this project, I was given a prompt that is ambiguous by nature. By what metrics do you even differentiate 10x developers from average ones? How would you measure those metrics? Where would you get them? Yet it's this ambiguity that made this project more exciting for me. I was left to my own devices. My professor gave me a lot of freedom in how I went about it, as long as it made sense and gave a concrete process.

# Brainstorm
Alright, so I have the topic. Where do I start? Of course, my professor did give me some guidance when I had meetings with him. For example, he told me me about a dataset called **GHTorrent** that contains all types of information about GitHub users, archiving every single fact and user. It contained commits, projects, users, issues, and other important facts that I used in my research. He also told me to consider if code created from an 10x developer is different from the normal developer and informed me about code complexity. If you're not aware, code complexity is an actual research topic in CS. First of all, I didn't even realized that code complexity was a thing. I did my research and some code can be more complex than others based on what factors are measured. One obvious example is the number of lines of code. Another is the number of conditionals: `if / else`. There are some factors that researchers disagree on, but in general, code can be numerically more complex than others based on what code metric you use. 

With this, I found this library called **Radon**, which is able to tell you if code is more complex, and by what factors. However, I saw that Radon can only analyze **Python** code, not any other language. I thought this would've been a *huge* problem because I would be creating a lot of bias in choosing a certain language. However, my professor told me it was perfectly fine because the Python community was still huge. I just needed to specify I'm only comparing with that language when I publish research on it. 

Finally, I realized that I could use **BigQuery** in order to do any SQL queries that I need to do. At first, I thought I would need to download all the data locally and mess with them myself. However, I saw that **GHTorrent** 

# Problems... and Lots of Them


